docs: an update to disaster recovery with new scenario (#11895)
rook/rook: Documentation/Troubleshooting/disaster-recovery.md

1. Copy the endpoints configmap from the old cluster: `rook-ceph-mon-endpoints`
1. Scale the rook operator up again : `kubectl -n rook-ceph scale deployment rook-ceph-operator --replicas 1`
1. Wait until the reconciliation is over.

## restoring ceph cluster only by content in dataDirHostPath and osds
When bad things happened, it may means nothing left in rook-ceph namespace! Good news are, with hold of content in directory dataDirHostPath and original osds, the ceph cluster could be restored through the following guide.

You need to manually create two CRs to make it work. The critical information in the CRs could be found in directory dataDirHostPath.

The first CR is for secret named rook-ceph-mon.yaml, for an example as below:

```console
apiVersion: v1
data:
  ceph-secret: QVFCZ0h6VmorcVNhSGhBQXVtVktNcjcrczNOWW9Oa2psYkErS0E9PQ==
  ceph-username: Y2xpZW50LmFkbWlu
  fsid: M2YyNzE4NDEtNjE4OC00N2MxLWIzZmQtOTBmZDRmOTc4Yzc2
  mon-secret: QVFCZ0h6VmorcVNhSGhBQXVtVktNcjcrczNOWW9Oa2psYkErS0E9PQ==
kind: Secret
metadata:
  finalizers:
  - ceph.rook.io/disaster-protection
  name: rook-ceph-mon
  namespace: rook-ceph
  ownerReferences: null
type: kubernetes.io/rook

```

> "ceph-secret" and "mon-secret" are to be filled with client.admin's keyring string. "ceph-username" to be string "client.admin". "fsid" to be original ceph cluster id. They could be found in dataDirHostPath/rook-ceph/client.admin.keyring and dataDirHostPath/rook-ceph/rook-ceph.config.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`ceph-secret` and `mon-secret` are to be filled with `client.admin`'s keyring contents. `ceph-username` to be string `client.admin`. `fsid` to be original ceph cluster id. These files can be found in `$dataDirHostPath/rook-ceph/client.admin.keyring` and `$dataDirHostPath/rook-ceph/rook-ceph.config`.
```

  maxMonId: "15"
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  finalizers:
  - ceph.rook.io/disaster-protection
  name: rook-ceph-mon-endpoints
  namespace: rook-ceph
  ownerReferences: null
```
For Monitor's service ips are in monitor data store you need to keep them consistent. We could modify them in this yaml and let rook operator create them for you, so that you don't have to change monitor data store. Along with monitor ids, you could find them in dataDirHostPath/rook-ceph/rook-ceph.config, for an example as below:
```console
[global]
fsid                = 3f271841-6188-47c1-b3fd-90fd4f978c76
mon initial members = m o k
mon host            = [v2:169.169.82.57:3300,v1:169.169.82.57:6789],[v2:169.169.7.81:3300,v1:169.169.7.81:6789],[v2:169.169.241.153:3300,v1:169.169.241.153:6789]
```
"mon initial members" and "mon host" are in the same order as a result you could tell which id for which service ip. Modify your rook-ceph-mon-endpoints.yaml based on information in rook-ceph.config above.

> "mapping" tell rook where to schedule monitor's pods. you could search in dataDirHostPath in all ceph cluster hosts for mon-m,mon-o,mon-k. If you find mon-m in host 10.138.55.120, you should fill 10.138.55.120 in mapping for "m". Others are the same.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`mapping` tell rook where to schedule monitor's pods. you could search in `dataDirHostPath` in all Ceph cluster hosts for `mon-m,mon-o,mon-k`. If you find `mon-m` in host `10.138.55.120`, you should fill `10.138.55.120` in mapping for `m`. Others are the same.
```

> Remember to update maxMonId as the max numeric order of current monitor ids(15 for id "o" for example).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Remember to update `maxMonId` as the max numeric order of current monitor ids (15 for id "o" for example).
```

> Now with correct information hold in yamls rook-ceph-mon.yaml and rook-ceph-mon-endpoints.yaml, you are ready to go restore.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now with correct information hold in YAMLs `rook-ceph-mon.yaml` and `rook-ceph-mon-endpoints.yaml`, you are ready to continue with the final restore steps.
```

You need to manually create a ConfigMap and a Secret to make it work. The information required for the ConfigMap and Secret can be found in the `dataDirHostPath` directory.

The first CR is for secret named rook-ceph-mon.yaml, for an example as below:

```console
apiVersion: v1
data:
  ceph-secret: QVFCZ0h6VmorcVNhSGhBQXVtVktNcjcrczNOWW9Oa2psYkErS0E9PQ==
  ceph-username: Y2xpZW50LmFkbWlu
  fsid: M2YyNzE4NDEtNjE4OC00N2MxLWIzZmQtOTBmZDRmOTc4Yzc2
  mon-secret: QVFCZ0h6VmorcVNhSGhBQXVtVktNcjcrczNOWW9Oa2psYkErS0E9PQ==
kind: Secret
metadata:
  finalizers:
  - ceph.rook.io/disaster-protection
  name: rook-ceph-mon
  namespace: rook-ceph
  ownerReferences: null
type: kubernetes.io/rook

```
`ceph-secret` and `mon-secret` are to be filled with `client.admin`'s keyring contents. `ceph-username` to be string `client.admin`. `fsid` to be original ceph cluster id. These files can be found in `$dataDirHostPath/rook-ceph/client.admin.keyring` and `$dataDirHostPath/rook-ceph/rook-ceph.config`.
All the fields in data section need to be coded by base64. Coding could be done by this:
```console
echo -n "string to code" | base64 -i -

> ```

Reviewer 2: Add this line:
```
Now save the secret as `rook-ceph-mon.yaml`, to be created later in the restore.
```

  data: k=169.169.241.153:6789,m=169.169.82.57:6789,o=169.169.7.81:6789
  mapping: '{"node":{"k":{"Name":"10.138.55.111","Hostname":"10.138.55.111","Address":"10.138.55.111"},"m":{"Name":"10.138.55.120","Hostname":"10.138.55.120","Address":"10.138.55.120"},"o":{"Name":"10.138.55.112","Hostname":"10.138.55.112","Address":"10.138.55.112"}}}'
  maxMonId: "15"
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  finalizers:
  - ceph.rook.io/disaster-protection
  name: rook-ceph-mon-endpoints
  namespace: rook-ceph
  ownerReferences: null
```
For Monitor's service ips are in monitor data store you need to keep them consistent. We could modify them in this yaml and let rook operator create them for you, so that you don't have to change monitor data store. Along with monitor ids, you could find them in dataDirHostPath/rook-ceph/rook-ceph.config, for an example as below:
```console
[global]
fsid                = 3f271841-6188-47c1-b3fd-90fd4f978c76
mon initial members = m o k
mon host            = [v2:169.169.82.57:3300,v1:169.169.82.57:6789],[v2:169.169.7.81:3300,v1:169.169.7.81:6789],[v2:169.169.241.153:3300,v1:169.169.241.153:6789]
```

> `mon initial members` and `mon host` are in the same order as a result you can tell which id for which service IP addresses. Modify your `rook-ceph-mon-endpoints.yaml` based on the information in `rook-ceph.config` above.

Reviewer 2: ?

> `mapping` tell rook where to schedule monitor's pods. you could search in `dataDirHostPath` in all Ceph cluster hosts for `mon-m,mon-o,mon-k`. If you find `mon-m` in host `10.138.55.120`, you should fill `10.138.55.120` in mapping for `m`. Others are the same.

Reviewer 2: ?

Remember to update `maxMonId` as the max numeric order of current monitor ids (15 for id "o" for example).

> 

Reviewer 2: Add this line:
```
Now save this configmap in the file rook-ceph-mon-endpoints.yaml, to be created later in the restore.
```

> Now with correct information hold in YAMLs `rook-ceph-mon.yaml` and `rook-ceph-mon-endpoints.yaml`, you are ready to continue with the final restore steps.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now that you have the info for the secret and the configmap, you are ready to restore the running cluster.
```

> Deploy Rook Ceph using the YAML files or Helm:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Deploy Rook Ceph using the YAML files or Helm, with the same settings you had previously.
```

```console
kubectl create -f crds.yaml -f common.yaml -f operator.yaml
```

> wait until operator is up right. Then create two CRs you have just crafted:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After the operator is running, create the configmap and secret you have just crafted:
```

```console
kubectl create -f rook-ceph-mon.yaml -f rook-ceph-mon-endpoints.yaml
```

> create your "new" ceph cluster:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create your ceph cluster CR (if possible, with the same settings as existed previously):
```

```console
kubectl create -f cluster.yaml
```

> Now your ceph cluster should be back running again.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now your ceph cluster should be running again.
```

1. Copy the endpoints configmap from the old cluster: `rook-ceph-mon-endpoints`
1. Scale the rook operator up again : `kubectl -n rook-ceph scale deployment rook-ceph-operator --replicas 1`
1. Wait until the reconciliation is over.

> ## Restoring the Rook cluster after the Rook namespace is deleted
> When the rook-ceph namespace is accidentally deleted, the good news is that the cluster can be restored. With the content in the directory `dataDirHostPath` and the original OSD disks, the ceph cluster could be restored with this guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Restoring the Rook cluster after the Rook namespace is deleted

When the rook-ceph namespace is accidentally deleted, the good news is that the cluster can be restored. With the content in the directory `dataDirHostPath` and the original OSD disks, the ceph cluster could be restored with this guide.
```

- `ceph-username`: set to the string `client.admin`
- `fsid`: set to the original ceph cluster id.
All the fields in data section need to be encoded in base64. Coding could be done like this:
```console
echo -n "string to code" | base64 -i -
```
Now save the secret as `rook-ceph-mon.yaml`, to be created later in the restore.

The second resource is the configmap named rook-ceph-mon-endpoints as seen in this example below:
```console
apiVersion: v1
data:
  csi-cluster-config-json: '[{"clusterID":"rook-ceph","monitors":["169.169.241.153:6789","169.169.82.57:6789","169.169.7.81:6789"],"namespace":""}]'
  data: k=169.169.241.153:6789,m=169.169.82.57:6789,o=169.169.7.81:6789
  mapping: '{"node":{"k":{"Name":"10.138.55.111","Hostname":"10.138.55.111","Address":"10.138.55.111"},"m":{"Name":"10.138.55.120","Hostname":"10.138.55.120","Address":"10.138.55.120"},"o":{"Name":"10.138.55.112","Hostname":"10.138.55.112","Address":"10.138.55.112"}}}'
  maxMonId: "15"
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  finalizers:
  - ceph.rook.io/disaster-protection
  name: rook-ceph-mon-endpoints
  namespace: rook-ceph
  ownerReferences: null
```

> For Monitor's service ips are also kept in monitor data store you need to keep them consistent. You could modify them in this yaml and let rook operator create them for you, so that you don't have to change monitor data store for the consistency. Along with monitor ids, you could find them in dataDirHostPath/rook-ceph/rook-ceph.config, for an example as below:

Reviewer: Please have an empty line between the start/end of each code block

1. Copy the endpoints configmap from the old cluster: `rook-ceph-mon-endpoints`
1. Scale the rook operator up again : `kubectl -n rook-ceph scale deployment rook-ceph-operator --replicas 1`
1. Wait until the reconciliation is over.

## Restoring the Rook cluster after the Rook namespace is deleted

When the rook-ceph namespace is accidentally deleted, the good news is that the cluster can be restored. With the content in the directory `dataDirHostPath` and the original OSD disks, the ceph cluster could be restored with this guide.

You need to manually create a ConfigMap and a Secret to make it work. The information required for the ConfigMap and Secret can be found in the `dataDirHostPath` directory.

The first resource is the secret named `rook-ceph-mon` as seen in this example below:

> ```console

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```yaml
```

apiVersion: v1
data:
  ceph-secret: QVFCZ0h6VmorcVNhSGhBQXVtVktNcjcrczNOWW9Oa2psYkErS0E9PQ==
  ceph-username: Y2xpZW50LmFkbWlu
  fsid: M2YyNzE4NDEtNjE4OC00N2MxLWIzZmQtOTBmZDRmOTc4Yzc2
  mon-secret: QVFCZ0h6VmorcVNhSGhBQXVtVktNcjcrczNOWW9Oa2psYkErS0E9PQ==
kind: Secret
metadata:
  finalizers:
  - ceph.rook.io/disaster-protection
  name: rook-ceph-mon
  namespace: rook-ceph
  ownerReferences: null
type: kubernetes.io/rook

```

The values for the secret can be found in `$dataDirHostPath/rook-ceph/client.admin.keyring` and `$dataDirHostPath/rook-ceph/rook-ceph.config`.
- `ceph-secret` and `mon-secret` are to be filled with the `client.admin`'s keyring contents.
- `ceph-username`: set to the string `client.admin`
- `fsid`: set to the original ceph cluster id.

> All the fields in data section need to be encoded in base64. Coding could be done like this:

Reviewer 2: Blank line before and after a paragraph, otherwise the rendering combines this with the previous bullet.

```console
echo -n "string to code" | base64 -i -
```
Now save the secret as `rook-ceph-mon.yaml`, to be created later in the restore.

The second resource is the configmap named rook-ceph-mon-endpoints as seen in this example below:

> ```console

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```yaml
```

apiVersion: v1
data:
  csi-cluster-config-json: '[{"clusterID":"rook-ceph","monitors":["169.169.241.153:6789","169.169.82.57:6789","169.169.7.81:6789"],"namespace":""}]'
  data: k=169.169.241.153:6789,m=169.169.82.57:6789,o=169.169.7.81:6789
  mapping: '{"node":{"k":{"Name":"10.138.55.111","Hostname":"10.138.55.111","Address":"10.138.55.111"},"m":{"Name":"10.138.55.120","Hostname":"10.138.55.120","Address":"10.138.55.120"},"o":{"Name":"10.138.55.112","Hostname":"10.138.55.112","Address":"10.138.55.112"}}}'
  maxMonId: "15"
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  finalizers:
  - ceph.rook.io/disaster-protection
  name: rook-ceph-mon-endpoints
  namespace: rook-ceph
  ownerReferences: null
```

> For Monitor's service ips are also kept in monitor data store you need to keep them consistent. You could modify them in this yaml and let rook operator create them for you, so that you don't have to change monitor data store for the consistency. Along with monitor ids, you could find them in dataDirHostPath/rook-ceph/rook-ceph.config, for an example as below:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Monitor's service IPs are kept in the monitor data store and you need to keep them consistent. After you create this configmap with the service IPs, the rook operator will create the services for you. Along with monitor ids, the service IPs can be found in dataDirHostPath/rook-ceph/rook-ceph.config, for example:
```
